# Motivations for "Happenings Around the World"
Author: Viet Than

## Background
Vietnam can be seen as China-lite. I can say that because I'm Vietnamese, but also because I have an unique perspective when it comes to international affairs. Unlike most of my generation, my education switched to that of the International Baccalaureate since grade three. Thanks to my mum's employment package, she could enroll her sons in the United Nations International School of Hanoi. This was an international education ("Educational Techniques for Peace. Do They Exist?" - UNESCO report, 1948), taught by international teachers (people can't tell my accent because I've been taught by citizens of all major English speaking countries), while making friends with international peers (How many have friends from all six continents?). 

This experience makes me both radically different from most Vietnamese people, yet also allows me to be painfully aware of my country's historical shortcomings, present day social problems, and future hidden dangers. I think almost all Vietnamese youths are aware on the peripheral of their conciousness that the current social structure of Vietnam has systematic problems, but I don't think many can present stats that can back up this general claim. 

Vietnam rank 117/180 on Transparency International's <a href="https://www.transparency.org/cpi2018">corruption index</a> in 2018 alongside Pakistan and Moldova, Toward Transparency's <a href="https://towardstransparency.vn/wp-content/uploads/2019/09/YIS-2019_Executive-Summary_EN.pdf">Vietnam Youth Integrity Survey 2019</a> found 81% of Vietnamese age 15-30 have "no or very little information on integrity and anti-corruption rules and regulations", and that 49% "are willing to take decisions that violate integrity in order to get into a good school or company". I think I am right in thinking this is a problem, because the same report found that "nearly all youth surveyed believe that corruption and lack of integrity is harmful to their generation (96%), the economy (95%) and the development
of Vietnam (97%)". These are alarming numbers.

## The Seed
So we come back to China, a country that is in many ways the "bigger" version of Vietnam. The foundations are the same. Both countries are communist one-party states. Both once found political roots in Marxist-Communism, though both have greatly diverged. Both cultures are given form through centuries of Confucian social thoughts. There are some extremes though, exemplar in specific cases. Vietnam sometimes meddle with the Internet, China has the Great Firewall. Vietnam has had good economic development, China has had great economic development. Vietnam had an abysmal military budget, China is second behind the USA. In many ways, Vietnam is just China-lite.

So when the Hong Kong protest broke out, I became immediately deeply interested. Not just only because it's the greatest civil unrest incident in China's modern era, but because I am interested in possible parallels. Of course, Vietnam doesn't have a Hong Kong, there are no comparable cases. But maybe through examination, we can find some small common threads. Maybe, we can find how Hong Kong youths become politically active, and instill it in Vietnamese youths.

## The Experience
This brings us to the Unity project. I recognize that heavyhanded handholding and lecturing will benefit no one. So I settle with just maybe expose people to news from other parts of the world. We know that travel broadens the minds to new opportunities,new perspectives, and new ideas. I want to achieve that with this project, at least in some small measures. VR with headset is perfect because the immersion experience of being in VR space is just simply a few steps up from watching the VR video on your phone. The videos selected were carefully selected from the small number of 360 degree video available on YouTube. You can even see in the "Scenes" folder an abandoned possible inclusion of a different video from Hong Kong. There is no commentary because I didn't want to influence the viewer's mind too much and let them come their own conclusions on what they want to feel and learnt. Just from the selection of videos there is already editorial bias. But I guess it comes piece and parcel with an experience designed to bring the viewer to places of civil unrest and discontent.

## Reflection
I regret not putting more information on screen for the different scenes, just throwing people in most of the time is unproductive. Especially with "Citizen Beirut" and "Citizen Seoul", where there aren't any helpful hard-baked subtitles. I also wish we aren't limited to just standing still and there could be more interactivity. The selection of videos are very limited and I couldn't include more impactful contemporary VR experiences. The videos also aren't shot from the viewpoint of humans (normal height) so the immersion experience is lacking. The quality of the videos arealso unfortunately still too low quality for VR experiences. On the technical side, I wish to be able to allow playback and playforward, preferably with a video bar. I also wish there is a way to automate the creation of scenes so that we can have more than just these four scenes. In the end though, I am still satisfied because the whole project is technically sound and in some ways achieve what we wanted.